---
service: AWS storage gateway
service-type: storage, networking
service-description: hybrid storage b/w on-premises and cloud
---

# AWS storage gateway
---
- **key insights:** 
	- <span style='color:#eb3b5a'>hybrid storage b/w on-premises and cloud</span> 
	- <span style='color:#fa8231'>integrates on-premises apps/workflows with</span> [[s3-vs-ebs-vs-efs#storage type|block and object]] <span style='color:#fa8231'>storage</span> 
		- <span style='color:#8854d0'>stores files as native</span> [[storage-s3#^939999|S3 objects]] 
		- <span style='color:#20bf6b'>archives virtual tapes in</span> [[storage-s3#S3 GLACIER fold|S3 glacier]] 
		- <span style='color:#3867d6'>stores</span> [[storage-ebs#snapshots|EBS snapshots]] <span style='color:#3867d6'>generated by volume gateway</span> 
---
**table of contents:**
- [[#storage solutions|storage solutions]]
	- [[#storage solutions#file gateway %% fold %%|file gateway %% fold %%]]
	- [[#storage solutions#volume gateway  %% fold %%|volume gateway  %% fold %%]]
		- [[#volume gateway  %% fold %%#cached volumes  %% fold %%|cached volumes  %% fold %%]]
		- [[#volume gateway  %% fold %%#stored volumes  %% fold %%|stored volumes  %% fold %%]]
		- [[#volume gateway  %% fold %%#tape gateway  %% fold %%|tape gateway  %% fold %%]]
- [[#security|security]]
- [[#pricing|pricing]]
--- 
## storage solutions
### file gateway %% fold %% 
- file interface for S3; service + virtual software app
- software appliance/gateway is deployed on-premises as a VM
- File gateway supports  [[storage-s3#^fcd873|S3 Standard]], [[storage-s3#^66c16f|S3 Standard – Infrequent Access]], and [[storage-s3#^c1037e|S3 One Zone – IA]] storage types.
- <mark style='background:#3867d6'>Data can be accessed directly in S3 from any AWS Cloud application or service</mark>.
- supports features lifecycle policies, cross-region replication, and versioning for managing S3 data.
- supports [[storage-s3#Object Lock|S3 Object Lock]], enabling write-once-read-many (WORM) file-based systems.
- Modifications made to files from the gateway's NFS or SMB clients are stored as new versions of the object.
- File Gateway local cache can support up to 64TB of data.
### volume gateway  %% fold %% 
- cloud-backed volumes 
- can be be mounted as iSCI devices on on-premises app servers 
- allows customers to detach and attach volumes for block storage
#### cached volumes  %% fold %%
- store your data in S3 and retain a copy of frequently accessed data subsets locally.
- range from 1 GiB to 32 TiB in size
	- must be rounded to the nearest GiB. 
-Each gateway configured for cached volumes can support up to 32 volumes.
#### stored volumes  %% fold %% 
- low-latency access to your entire dataset: 
	- configure your on-premises gateway to store all your data locally. 
	- asynchronously back up point-in-time snapshots of this data to S3. 
- range from 1 GiB to 16 TiB in size
	- must be rounded to the nearest GiB. 
- Each gateway configured for stored volumes can support up to 32 volumes.
#### tape gateway  %% fold %%
- archive backup data in S3 glacier 
- virtual tape library (VTL) interface to store data on virtual tape cartridges that you create
- can move your virtual tapes archived in Amazon S3 Glacier to [[storage-s3#Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive fold|glacier deep archive class]] for more savings 
## security 
- [[security-aws-kms#^bed19a|AWS KMS]] to encrypt data
- [[security-identity-compliance-aws-iam#^ab9f15|IAM]] for authentication/access control
## pricing 
- charged based on the type and amount of storage you use, the requests you make, and the amount of data transferred out of AWS.
- charged only for the amount of data you write to the Tape Gateway tape, not tape capacity.
--- 
# Resources
- [cheat sheet](https://tutorialsdojo.com/aws-storage-gateway/) 
# Tags
- #aws-ccp-exam-notes/services/storage/storage-gateway  
---


	

